---
title: Cryostat Operation
---

Manipulator can be cooled down using either liquid nitrogen or helium.

:::caution

When the temperature of the manipulator goes down it absorbs residual moisture
and other gasses. Therefore, we remove the sample from the manipulator and
transferred back after the manipulator is reached its lowest temperature.

Conversely, when the manipulator starts warming up, it releases the absorbed
gasses, therefore the chamber pressure worsens. You might consider transferring
out the sample to preserve its surface.

:::

First insert the transfer line in the cryogenic dewar, keep the needle valve
closed. Once the pressure of the dewar grows up to 0.5 bar, takes about 10-20
minutes, then open the needle valve 2-3 full turns. The cold finger reaches to
77 K in about 10-15 minutes once the liquid starts collecting in the manipulator
cryostat.

Once the cold finger reaches the lowest temperature, we need the needle valve
less than a quarter of a turn to maintain the temperature.

The sample stage requires longer time to stabilize. After about 2 hrs, the
sample stage temperature reaches about 85 K while using liquid nitrogen.

We have only one heating channel (loop 1). In order to set temperature, press
key `5` or `6` (for `loop 1` or `loop 2`, respectively), if the section is not
set point, use up/<wbr/>down arrow keys to select set point, entered desired
number, press `Enter`. Go back to main screen by pressing `Home`.

You can also access set point by `Set Pt` key, select the loop by up/<wbr/>down
arrow keys, enter desired number and press `Enter`.

In order to start the heating press `Control`, and stop press `Stop`.

Once experiment is done, close the needle valve, open the venting/ pressure
release valve in the dewar, and remove the transfer line from the cryogenic
dewar.

:::danger

Make sure that the cryogen flow is optimal. If there is excessive flow, it will
cause condensation at the manipulator head. Later when it melts, water could
fall over motors and other sensitive electrical/<wbr/>mechanical components.

The pressure in the dewar must not exceed 0.5 bar. The dewar used for liquid
nitrogen has pressure release valve to maintain 0.5 bar. However, always keep an
eye on the meter, in case there is blockade due to icing.

:::

## Resources
- [Cry-con 22C User Manual](https://file-storage.github.io/manuals/cryocon_22c_user_manual.pdf)
