---
title: Safety matters
---

:::info Important Hotlines ( available 24 âœ• 7)

NUS Campus Security: **6874 1616** <br />
Fire and Ambulance: **995** <br />
Singapore Police Force: **999**

:::

Like any other workplaces, working in our laboratory has certain risks. Safety
is a shared responsibility. We all have our roles to play in order to make our
workplace safe for all of us. Nothing is more important than your and your
colleagues' safety and wellbeing. Please take note of various safety measures
and be mindful of them at all times. This is not a comprehensive safety guide,
and only meant to give you an overview of various risks associated with our
laboratory. Please refer to the various [university resources](
https://staffportal.nus.edu.sg/staffportal/portal/safety-security-and-sustainability.html)
(resources are available from campus network, if you are off-campus, please
connect via VPN) for better understanding of various safety regulations. Please
complete required online safety modules. Avoid working alone in the laboratory
especially outside of office hours. Some of the safety risks associated with our
laboratory is listed below:

## Radiation exposure

Our building has various source of high energy electromagnetic radiation
including a synchrotron storage ring, X-ray producing machines, LASERS,
microwave generators. If you are a fulltime user, you must have R1 radiation
license from National Environment Agency of Singapore, and need to wear
radiation monitoring devices (TLD badges). You must never enter the synchrotron
vault area unless you are authorized. Never enter experimental hutches when beam
is ON. You must never remove any protective covers from the X-ray machines,
LASER sources. Outside the vault area and experimental hutches, the radiation is
as low as background level of Singapore. The vault also houses large
superconducting magnets, so if you are wearing pacemaker or any such device, be
mindful.

## Electrical hazard

Almost all machines require electrical power. There are some setups that uses
very high voltages. Never remove any covers from such devices without
authorization. Only use power plugs with Singapore certified SAFETY MARK or
European CE mark including for your personal devices such as charging laptop.

## Fall, trip, working at height

There are narrow passage ways, sharp objects, sometimes there might be water
spills especially on the rainy days, sometimes you may need to work at height
using ladders/stairs. You are only allowed to enter laboratory area wearing
covered shoes.

## Chemical safety

Always make sure you have gone through various safety measures/<wbr/>regulations
before bringing any chemical to the campus. We need licenses for storing and
working with various chemicals. You need to provide material data sheet to the
safety officer, so that our chemical spill team are aware of various risks in
case some emergency occurs.

## Working with cryogenics

We use liquid nitrogen and helium to achieve low temperature. You must get
relevant training before working with cryogenics. Please wear protective gloves,
facial shields etc. as required. Never get in the lift or small confined area
with a cryogenic dewar. It can saturate the air inside such confined area if
stayed longer. Press the lift floor switch, and ask another colleague to attend
the dewar when lift arrives at desired floor.

## Compressed gas cylinders

We use compressed gasses such as nitrogen, oxygen, helium, argon etc. Such
cylinders must be secured appropriately. You must seek relevant training before
training. Such gas cylinders are usually very tall and and narrow shaped, and
biggest risk is falling sideways. If the head knocks some other object, it might
break off. It will cause the cylinder to fly like a rocket. So, the cylinders
must be secured with chains against wall or in a boot.

## LASER sources

You must go through required safety modules, and have appropriate licenses
before working with LASER setups. Wear protective goggles, and cordon your setup
area or close hutch when LASER devices are ON.

## Fire safety

Please take note of fire exits in the SSLS building. In the event of fire, there
will be alarm and all exit doors locks will be disabled. You should run out of
the building to nearest gathering point. It is good to check on your colleagues
in the building but first make sure it is safe for you to do so.

## Miscellaneous

Do not bring food items to the experimental area. If required, there is a pantry
room. Cleaning services are not available inside the SSLS building during the
weekend (after Friday afternoon), please take your food wastes and bin in the
large/general bins outside (available in various locations in the campus).

NUS organizes various safety trainings such as fire drills, chemical spill
drills, first aid training, CPR & AED familiarization etc. periodically
throughout the year. Try to attend as many as you can.
